Add modding basics (replacing textures) (#2)
MoolahModding/site: docs/modding-basics/using-fmodel/index.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Using FModel

> ## Setup FModel for PAYDAY 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up FModel for PAYDAY 3
```

> Open up FModel and Setup it for PAYDAY 3 by clicking `Directory` > `Selector`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open up FModel and set it up for PAYDAY 3 by clicking `Directory` > `Selector`.
```

> Then adding the name of the game (Doesn't matter how you call it) and **root** directory of the game.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add the name of the game (doesn't matter what you call it) and the **root** directory of the game.
```

> Then adding the name of the game (Doesn't matter how you call it) and **root** directory of the game.

Reviewer: I would go in a bit more detail about the actions shown in the screenshots. I had a bit of trouble with this UI the first time. It would be best to point out that you need to click the little button under "Add undetected game", and to click the plus button before clicking ok.

Author: I'll make it a gif

Reviewer: That works too :)

![Setup Game](assets/fmodel-1.png)

As of writing, PAYDAY 3 uses an AES key so in order to access the game files, you need to give the AES key to FModel.
Open the menu for that by clicking `Directory` > `AES`.

![Setup AES Key](assets/fmodel-2.png)

That's it! You should now be able to access the game files without repeating this step.

## Exporting

> Next, click on `Load` under the `Archives` tab (Make sure Loading Mode is set as `All`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click on `Load` under the `Archives` tab, making sure Loading Mode is set as `All`.
```

![Load Packages](assets/fmodel-3.png)

You should now see two folders, navigate through the PAYDAY3 folder and find which texture you wish to replace.
You can also press <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>SHIFT</kbd> + <kbd>F</kbd> to search for assets.
We'll export the phone screen texture (`PAYDAY3/Content/Environment/_Common/Interactable/MobilePhone_01/Component/T_PhoneScreenWithAlpha_`) 

Once you find the texture you wish to replace, right click on the file and click `Save Texture (.png)`.

> FModel should print out a message on the console which let's you click to reveal where it saved the texture in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FModel should print out a message on the console with a path you can click to open the directory the file was saved to.
```
